about.md, before:

---
title: About
excerpt: "Shane Curcuru is an Apache Director, VP of Brand Management, open source developer, and consultant on community and trademarks."
layout: page
permalink: /about/
published: true
id: /about
icons: true
seo:
  type: person
---

<div class="alignright">{% avatar shanecurcuru size=250 %}</div>

Shane has been involved at the Apache Software Foundation since 1999, and serves as Director and VP of Brand Management, setting [policy for trademarks and branding](http://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/resources) and working with all 200+ Apache projects on community management, trademarks, and branding issues.

Otherwise, Shane is: a father and husband, a friend, a geek, a [Member of the ASF](http://whyilovetheasf.com/), a baker, a BMW driver, a punny guy, and lifelong resident within the 495 belt. Oh, and [we have cats](https://www.instagram.com/shanecurcuru/).  Shane regularly blogs and speaks on [open source community](http://communityovercode.com/), governance, and branding topics.

This website showcases some of the open source presentations I've made at major conferences, including ApacheCon, OSCON, All Things Open, Community Leadership Summit, and Ignite.

Available for consulting and speaking engagements.  [Contact me](/contact) or find me on these social networks:

{% include contact-links.html %}

Commit message:

Add punderthings and privacy policy

about.md, after:

---
title: About
excerpt: "Shane Curcuru is an Apache Director, VP of Brand Management, open source developer, and Punderthings consultant on community and trademarks."
layout: page
permalink: /about/
published: true
id: /about
icons: true
seo:
  type: person
---

<div class="alignright">{% avatar shanecurcuru size=250 %}</div>

Shane has been involved at the Apache Software Foundation since 1999, and serves as Director and VP of Brand Management, setting [policy for trademarks and branding](http://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/resources) and working with all 200+ Apache projects on community management, trademarks, and branding issues.

Otherwise, Shane is: a father and husband, a friend, a geek, a [Member of the ASF](http://whyilovetheasf.com/), a baker, a BMW driver, a punny guy, and lifelong resident within the 495 belt. Oh, and [we have cats](https://www.instagram.com/shanecurcuru/).  Shane regularly blogs and speaks on [open source community](http://communityovercode.com/), governance, and branding topics, and runs the [Punderthings consultancy](http://punderthings.com/).

This website showcases some of the open source presentations I've made at major conferences, including ApacheCon, OSCON, All Things Open, Community Leadership Summit, and Ignite.

<h2>Punderthings&#8480; Consulting</h2>

Shane's [Punderthings, LLC](http://punderthings.com/) is available for speaking engagements or contracting to help you better understand open source.  [Contact me](/contact) or find me on these social networks:

{% include contact-links.html %}
