apachecon/TheApacheWay-Track-ApacheConNA2017.md, before:

layout: true
name: fullheader
background-image: url(img/ApacheCon-HG.png)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: separator
background-image: url(img/ApacheCon-BG.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: logorb
class: left
background-image: url(img/Apache_NA_Logo-b.png)
background-repeat: no-repeat
background-position: 98% bottom
background-size: 20%
background-origin: padding-box

---
template: fullheader
# The Apache Way
## A Full Day Track Of Expert ASF Speakers

Join us Wednesday at ApacheCon Miami for a full day track focusing 
on the Apache Way, and how you or your company can make the best 
of participating in Apache projects.


---
template: logorb
# The Apache Way
## Wednesday Schedule

* 8:00am Breakfast
* 9:00am [Apache Way: Concepts in Practice](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zyI/the-apache-way-concepts-in-practice-shane-curcuru-the-apache-software-foundation), Shane Curcuru
* Coffee Break
* 10:15 [A Tale Of Two Developers](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zv3/a-tale-of-two-developers-finding-harmony-between-commercial-software-development-and-the-apache-way-andrew-wang-alex-leblang-cloudera), Andrew Wang & Alex Leblang
* 11:15 [From dev@ to user@](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zvM/from-dev-to-user-steve-blackmon-people-pattern), Steve Blackmon
* 12:15 [Software is Easy; People are Hard](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zvb/software-is-easy-people-are-hard-benjamin-young-john-wiley-sons-inc), Benjamin Young
* 1:05pm Lunch (on own)
* 2:30pm Apache Way For Businesses, Nick Burch
* 3:30pm [Committed To Apache](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zvb/software-is-easy-people-are-hard-benjamin-young-john-wiley-sons-inc), Sharan Foga
* 4:20pm Break
* 4:40pm Keynotes
* 5:50pm Lightning Talks


---
template: separator
# Apache Way: Concepts in Practice
## Shane Curcuru
## 9:00AM

---
template: logorb
# Apache Way: Concepts in Practice

This will introduce the track, and briefly cover some of the ways 
we practice the Apache Way (community, consensus, async communication, 
three +1s, etc.) along with some of the reasons/rationale behind it.

This will likely be somewhat high concept, and I want to spend a little
time explaining some of the terms and concepts that others will be 
using later.  I will not be going into history or how we started; what 
people want to know is how to get involved with projects efficiently now.

---
template: separator
# A Tale Of Two Developers
## Andrew Wang & Alex Leblang
## 10:15AM

---
template: logorb
# A Tale Of Two Developers

Planning to cover "Apache FAQ for new developers", which should be good overall intro material.

TODO-Alex any characters or themes others can refer to?  In particular, 
are you focusing on technical, social, or "why we do X" issues?

---
template: separator
# From dev@ to user@
## Steve Blackmon
## 11:15AM

---
template: logorb
# From dev@ to user@

TODO-Steve
(Telling story of Apache Streams community and how they changed thru incubation-project-improvements)

---
template: separator
# Software is Easy; People are Hard
## Benjamin Young
## 12:15PM

---
template: logorb
# Software is Easy; People are Hard

TODO-Benjamin - panel discussion - do you have some sample questions yet?

---
template: separator
# Apache Way For Businesses
## Nick Burch
## 2:30PM

---
template: logorb
# How to bring your project to the Apache Incubator (or)
# Companies and Apache, the Good and the Bad

Nick / Shane to write, Nick speaking (Shane at board meeting)


---
template: separator
# Committed To Apache
## Sharan Foga
## 3:30PM

---
template: logorb
# Committed To Apache

This talk will cover the concepts of community, commitment and merit
and how being involved in an Apache project is not only about 
contributing code. 

Theme will be linked to institution and use terminology:

Entering the Facility (i.e first look at Apache, & getting involved)

Imates in Charge (i.e. No one in charge and everyone in charge concept)

Invisible Friends (i.e collaborating with people you cant see, virtual 
community)

Possible catch phrases:

1.Don't let words or titles fool you - you don't have to be a committer
to be committed to a Apache
2.It's not a hierachy, it's a community
3.Think we, not me
4.No-one in charge and everyone in charge

From Shane's Apache Way

5.Merit is not just for code
6.You gain merit by doing things the community values

---
name: last-page
template: logorb

## Thank You &amp; Questions!

[Join us at ApacheCon Miami!](events.linuxfoundation.org/events/apachecon-north-america/)

Commit message:

from dev@ to user@
take 1

apachecon/TheApacheWay-Track-ApacheConNA2017.md, after:

layout: true
name: fullheader
background-image: url(img/ApacheCon-HG.png)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: separator
background-image: url(img/ApacheCon-BG.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: logorb
class: left
background-image: url(img/Apache_NA_Logo-b.png)
background-repeat: no-repeat
background-position: 98% bottom
background-size: 20%
background-origin: padding-box

---
template: fullheader
# The Apache Way
## A Full Day Track Of Expert ASF Speakers

Join us Wednesday at ApacheCon Miami for a full day track focusing 
on the Apache Way, and how you or your company can make the best 
of participating in Apache projects.


---
template: logorb
# The Apache Way
## Wednesday Schedule

* 8:00am Breakfast
* 9:00am [Apache Way: Concepts in Practice](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zyI/the-apache-way-concepts-in-practice-shane-curcuru-the-apache-software-foundation), Shane Curcuru
* Coffee Break
* 10:15 [A Tale Of Two Developers](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zv3/a-tale-of-two-developers-finding-harmony-between-commercial-software-development-and-the-apache-way-andrew-wang-alex-leblang-cloudera), Andrew Wang & Alex Leblang
* 11:15 [From dev@ to user@](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zvM/from-dev-to-user-steve-blackmon-people-pattern), Steve Blackmon
* 12:15 [Software is Easy; People are Hard](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zvb/software-is-easy-people-are-hard-benjamin-young-john-wiley-sons-inc), Benjamin Young
* 1:05pm Lunch (on own)
* 2:30pm Apache Way For Businesses, Nick Burch
* 3:30pm [Committed To Apache](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zvb/software-is-easy-people-are-hard-benjamin-young-john-wiley-sons-inc), Sharan Foga
* 4:20pm Break
* 4:40pm Keynotes
* 5:50pm Lightning Talks


---
template: separator
# Apache Way: Concepts in Practice
## Shane Curcuru
## 9:00AM

---
template: logorb
# Apache Way: Concepts in Practice

This will introduce the track, and briefly cover some of the ways 
we practice the Apache Way (community, consensus, async communication, 
three +1s, etc.) along with some of the reasons/rationale behind it.

This will likely be somewhat high concept, and I want to spend a little
time explaining some of the terms and concepts that others will be 
using later.  I will not be going into history or how we started; what 
people want to know is how to get involved with projects efficiently now.

---
template: separator
# A Tale Of Two Developers
## Andrew Wang & Alex Leblang
## 10:15AM

---
template: logorb
# A Tale Of Two Developers

Planning to cover "Apache FAQ for new developers", which should be good overall intro material.

TODO-Alex any characters or themes others can refer to?  In particular, 
are you focusing on technical, social, or "why we do X" issues?

---
template: separator
# From dev@ to user@
## Steve Blackmon
## 11:15AM

---
template: logorb
# From dev@ to user@

This talk will be a survey of challenges faced when establishing an ASF project and the many dimensions of project maturity.

We'll examine the ways that project code, community, documentation, and vision must evolve in order to decrease the degree of familiarity necessary to benefit from (and contribute to) the project.

Examples drawn from the journey of Podling Streams, color commentary from everyone in the room will be very welcome.

---
template: separator
# Software is Easy; People are Hard
## Benjamin Young
## 12:15PM

---
template: logorb
# Software is Easy; People are Hard

TODO-Benjamin - panel discussion - do you have some sample questions yet?

---
template: separator
# Apache Way For Businesses
## Nick Burch
## 2:30PM

---
template: logorb
# How to bring your project to the Apache Incubator (or)
# Companies and Apache, the Good and the Bad

Nick / Shane to write, Nick speaking (Shane at board meeting)


---
template: separator
# Committed To Apache
## Sharan Foga
## 3:30PM

---
template: logorb
# Committed To Apache

This talk will cover the concepts of community, commitment and merit
and how being involved in an Apache project is not only about 
contributing code. 

Theme will be linked to institution and use terminology:

Entering the Facility (i.e first look at Apache, & getting involved)

Imates in Charge (i.e. No one in charge and everyone in charge concept)

Invisible Friends (i.e collaborating with people you cant see, virtual 
community)

Possible catch phrases:

1.Don't let words or titles fool you - you don't have to be a committer
to be committed to a Apache
2.It's not a hierachy, it's a community
3.Think we, not me
4.No-one in charge and everyone in charge

From Shane's Apache Way

5.Merit is not just for code
6.You gain merit by doing things the community values

---
name: last-page
template: logorb

## Thank You &amp; Questions!

[Join us at ApacheCon Miami!](events.linuxfoundation.org/events/apachecon-north-america/)
