apachecon/TheApacheWay-Intro-ApacheConNA2017.md, before:

layout: true
name: fullheader
background-image: url(img/david-lezcano-120708-sml.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: flockbottom
background-image: url(img/shwetha-shankar-137724-smb.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: palmsbottom
background-image: url(img/jeremy-bishop-257105-sm.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: treeright
background-image: url(img/meduana-178155-sm.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: beachbottom
background-image: url(img/alexandre-perotto-46114-sml.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: pineapple
background-image: url(img/pineapple-supply-co-64690-sm.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: closing
background-image: url(img/deborah-kunzie-49758-sm.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: thanks
background-image: url(img/stuart-guest-smith-150560-sm.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: menu
background-image: url(img/lance-asper-153777-sm.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: logorb
class: left
background-image: url(img/Apache_NA_Logo-b.png)
background-repeat: no-repeat
background-position: 98% bottom
background-size: 20%
background-origin: padding-box

---
template: fullheader
# Coming Up Next

.left-column[
## Shane Curcuru
]
.right-column[
## The Apache Way: Effective Open Source Project Management
]

---
template: fullheader
# The Apache Way
## Effective Open Source Project Management

.left-column[
## Shane Curcuru
]

.right-column[
### Vice President, Brand Management
### The Apache Software Foundation
### [@ShaneCurcuru](https://twitter.com/shanecurcuru)
]


---
template: logorb
# Apache Way: Introduction

> The Apache Way is a set or behaviors and practices developed at the ASF
and designed to promote long-lived successful projects by
focusing on stable governance and encouraging new contributors.

> These behaviors are required of Apache projects.

???
Very high level intro, mention concepts: openness, merit, consensus.
Whole day of sessions: pick the ones that make the most sense to you.


---
template: logorb
# The Apache Way - Morning
## Wednesday Schedule

* 9:00am [Apache Way: Effective Open Source Project Management](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zyI/the-apache-way-concepts-in-practice-shane-curcuru-the-apache-software-foundation), Shane Curcuru
* Coffee Break
* 10:15 [A Tale Of Two Developers In The Apache Way](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zv3/a-tale-of-two-developers-finding-harmony-between-commercial-software-development-and-the-apache-way-andrew-wang-alex-leblang-cloudera), Andrew Wang & Alex Leblang
* 11:15 [From dev@ to user@ to The Apache Way](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zvM/from-dev-to-user-steve-blackmon-people-pattern), Steve Blackmon
* 12:15 [Apache Way: Software is Easy; People are Hard](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zvb/software-is-easy-people-are-hard-benjamin-young-john-wiley-sons-inc), Benjamin Young
* 1:05pm Lunch (on own)

???
**Tales of 2 developers** with Andrew and Alex: how corporations - and their employees - can best get involved in Apache projects, told from your employee's perspective.

**From dev@to user@** with Steve: How projects can make it easy to attract new contributors

**Panel on Software is easy, people are hard** Panel discussion with Benjamin and Apache experts - how Apache projects can survive where others get dominated by one company, or run out of ideas, and their volunteers disappear.

---
template: logorb
# The Apache Way - Afternoon
## Wednesday Schedule

* 1:05pm Lunch (on own)
* 2:30pm [The Apache Way For Business](http://sched.co/AghD), Nick Burch
* 3:30pm [Committed To The Apache Way](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zvb/software-is-easy-people-are-hard-benjamin-young-john-wiley-sons-inc), Sharan Foga
* 4:20pm Coffee Break
* 4:40pm **Keynotes**
* 5:50pm **Lightning Talks**

???
**The Apache Way For Business** with Nick Burch and an expert panel of Apacheites, 
explaining how your company should think about engaging with Apache projects.

**Committed to Apache** with Sharan: How individuals can get recognized for contributions in other ways **besides code**

**Keynotes** a couple of talks about IOT and machine learning, then a great talk 
about how Comcast's developers make use of the Apache Way.

---
template: closing
# Apache Way
## Defining The Behaviors

---
template: logorb
# Apache Way History

- Creation of the ASF as a Foundation
- PMC Organization and Growth
- History of the Apache Way

???
The traditional Apache Way talk leads you through the journey of the 
ASF itself, how it was founded, the history of our communities, 
and a lot of other stuff from the past.

---
template: logorb
# What we AREN'T Talking About

- But I'm not going to do that
- What does history matter now?
- Why do we care how or why it happened?
- You want actionable information on **What To Do!**

???
But is that really important?  You want to learn the behaviors, right?
Actionable information.  Let's get to the good stuff.

So this is a new kind of Apache Way talk.

But in a diverse and dispersed world, having the why behind the rule - 
or the rationale to the policy - is a key way to ensure the community 
can understand it, know it's proven value, and then have an intelligent 
and focused way that we could work on changes.  That's still there - but 
we'll save the whys for after we talk about the whats.


---
template: menu
name: menu
# Apache Way: Menu

**What behaviors should we talk about next?**

- **[Community](#community)** - over Code
- **[Merit](#merit)** - recognizing your work
- **[Open Development](#open)** - for **everything**
- **[Decision Making](#decision)** - consensus & votes
- **[Communication](#communication)** - how we write
- [Questions To Answer](#closingslide)

.footnote[The Apache Way is participatory! **You** are part of the community!]

???
Community Over Code also means that You Need To Participate.

Each of these is a set of topics about a kind of behaviors that 
Apache projects are expected to follow.  **What do you want to talk about?**


---
template: flockbottom
name: community
# Community

.footnote[
[Take a different way?](#menu) | Continue Onward?
]

---
template: logorb
# Community

- What kind of community do we mean?
  - We don't live together
  - we don't work together
  - We don't know each other
- Except through our project

???
What does community mean here?  Working on an independent open source 
project is very different than most other human activities.  There are 
no other ties between people widely distributed in location, in time, 
in experience, and in jobs besides the project itself.  **SPACEBAR**

--

- Community includes developers, writers, testers, sysadmins, 
devops,... **and users**.


???
The important thing is that the **community** owns the project.  Not you, 
not me, not your company.  All of us.


---
template: logorb
# Community - No Jerks Allowed

- "No jerks allowed" - a key early message
  - Apache communities value group contributors, not lone wolves
  - Diverse communities attract more new contributors over time
  - BDFL not allowed in Apache PMCs

???
There are many ways to say this - No Jerks Allowed, Avoid Poisonous 
People, be decent, whatever.  The point is, where everyone is a volunteer 
and most people are doing this as a side task or second effort, ensuring 
that everyone is welcome is the most important factor for a long-lived 
health project.

---
template: logorb
# Community - No Jerks Allowed

- "No jerks allowed" - a key early message
  - FOSS communities value group contributors, not lone wolves
  - Diverse communities that can attract new contributors over time

### Be Excellent To Each Other

???
In the immortal words of Bill and Ted: Be Excellent To Each Other.

This is important for any community, and doubly so for Apache projects, 
since we're all also part of the larger ASF community.  We have a code 
of conduct - not because we want to use it, but because we don't want 
to have to use it, since the great majority of our communities keep 
discussion polite to start with. 


---
template: logorb
# Community - Wear Your Hats

- You are an individual - not an employee
- No corporate participation in Apache
- Individuals get recognition
  - Side effect for corporate teams: all team members must participate separately
  - Side effect for **you**: your merit stays with **you**

???
The ASF does not allow direct corporate participation in projects.  
We only recognize individuals.  Merit accrues to individuals, and they 
are expected to act with their project hat on at times.

This may be a polite fiction - many employment agreements mean you have 
to look out for your employer - but it's a key part of how our projects work.

This both ensures that newcomers - from big employers or small ones - are 
welcome in our projects, and also means that the merit **you** gain 
in an Apache project stays with **you**, no matter where you work.  That 
helps encourage long-lived participants, across jobs.


---
template: logorb
# Community - Check Affiliations At The Door

- Not talking about hierarchy
- Because we have one - each project is separate
- We each volunteer with same powers (and superpowers in a PMC)
- Your PMC doesn't care what your dayjob role is

???
Wearing your project hat means you're acting on behalf of the project as 
a whole, not your employer.  Sometimes you need to do things as an 
employee; that's fine.  But mark it clearly, and when voting on 
serious project decisions, wear your project hat.


---
template: logorb
# Community - Independent Governance

- ASF owns the trademarks
- ASF ensures neutrality, development
- PMC owns the brand
- PMCs govern independently

> "It's not a hierachy, it's a community"

???
The net effect of all the above is that projects are governed for the 
public good and the best interests of the project community as a whole.

PMCs are expected to make releases and vote in new committers based on 
merit - how much an individual creates value for that project.

When PMCs slack in their duties, the board is here to provide oversight 
and if necessary, correction.  Both at the PMC level and the board level 
we expect people to act for the public good - and the fact we are a 
501C3 organization, with directors elected from merit - not sponsor 
dollars - means we can back it up.


---
template: pineapple
name: merit
# Merit

[Take a different way?](#menu) | Continue Onward?


---
template: logorb
# Merit - What YOU Can Do

.left-column[
Merit
]

.right-column[
Defined by the value **you** bring to the specific project, defined 
in the **context of that project** by the project community.
]

> "You gain merit by doing things that specific community values"

???
Meritocracy is a word we use that is often misunderstood - some other 
communities see it as having a different connotation than the ASF uses.

Your merit is the value you bring to a project **as judged by that project's community**.

Every project is it's own merit structure.  Merit is not transferable, 
and it doesn't expire.  It may get stale, but it stays with you through 
jobs and careers.


---
template: logorb
# Merit - Growth

The more you do, the more power you _may be granted_ to take actions:
- User
- Contributor
- **Committer**
- **PMC Member**
- PMC Chair / VP
- ASF Member
- **Director**

???
Each step is defined by the merit you are recognized for by that 
specific community. Each step means you can get a binding vote on new tasks.


---
template: logorb
# Merit - Not Authority

- Leaders vs. managers

> "Merit does not buy you **authority** (community must still agree)"

> "Merit gets you **privileges**: commit access, voting on committers"

???
You are still part of the community - it's not a hierarchy; everyone 
with merit (commit bit) has a say in basic decisions.

Everyone can propose and do new work.  Just because you don't find it 
valuable, doesn't mean some other part of the community thinks it's valuable.


---
template: logorb
# Merit - Umbrella Projects

## Problem area: Umbrella projects

Jakarta was an umbrella project - with many different subprojects and 
components - and communities.

The PMC must be a coherent community to be able to recognize merit in all contributors.

???
A cautionary tale: in the past, we have had successful projects that grew 
in scope - both technical and social - until they were too big to 
govern themselves effectively.

When a project grows such that different groups of committers running 
modules can't evaluate each other's work - or vote on releases - it's 
probably too big.

The board is here to backstop communities.  Each community needs to be 
coherent and work as a single unit - when you're bigger than that, you should 
split up into separate projects.


---
template: palmsbottom
name: open
# Open Development

.footnote[
[Take a different way?](#menu) | Continue Onward?
]

---
template: logorb
# Open Development - Time Shifting

- Yes, we use mailing lists
- Asynchronous communication is critical
  - ...a dispersed community
  - ...dispersed in space
  - ...dispersed in abilities / expertise
  - ...dispersed in motivation
  - ...dispersed in time
- Only know each other through the project

???
Remember: we are a dispersed community, each with our own lives and jobs.
We need to show the work we're doing - and allow feedback - in whatever 
timeframe works for everyone else on the project.

You don't need to wait for everyone's feedback - but you do need to recognize that 
sometimes other committers will have better ideas, or will be willing 
to do some of the work for you.


---
template: logorb
# Open Development - Archiving Everything

> If It Didn't Happen On-List It Didn't Happen

- Must be public list unless there's a reason for private list
- Asynchronous lists provide time for 
  - feedback
  - critique
  - new ideas
  - others to show their work

> Allows newcomers to learn at any time

???
Archiving everything means that newcomers can get up to speed with 
all the information of the project available for them.  Even if your 
documentation doesn't lead new users through this, having it available 
both for people to find, and especially for people to reference when 
questions come up is the most important thing.


---
template: logorb
# Open Development - Transparent Decisions

- Your motives aren't transparent to the community
  - Motivated by boss, by outside technical need, by just being a geek
- Motivation should be best for project as a whole

The right way to work is to:

- Telegraph your intent
- Draft designs openly
- Submit work in chunks
- Welcome feedback along the way

???
Ensuring decisions are made openly - when everyone has the same information 
and time to read it - is required of Apache projects.

**Open source does not always mean open development.**

Apache projects always practice open development - it's required.

---
template: logorb
# Open Development - Pragmatic License

- Apache License v2.0
- Maximum user freedom
- Trust in ASF as corporation
  - To maintain open development
  - To continue to provide source code

> Apache Attic - where quiet projects slumber

???
A goal of the ASF is to encourage maximum inbound contributions.
Using the broadly permissive Apache License v2.0 is a key part of 
this - both from the legal details point of view, and from our brand.

People trust they can just use stuff from Apache without being surprised 
by any unusual licenses or changes.


---
template: beachbottom
name: decision
# Decision Making

[Take a different way?](#menu) | Continue Onward?


---
template: logorb
# Decision Making - Consensus Preferred

- Consensus within community
- Choose best path forward
  - Or even an improvement
  - Your perfection may be someone else's "meh"

???
**There is no perfection** - just getting better step by step.  Our goal is 
to serve the public good, so any new features - as long as they don't 
fail the tests or unduly slow down performance - is a good thing.

Consensus doesn't mean everyone thinks it's perfect - just that any 
proposed change is better somehow than we have now.


---
template: logorb
# Decision Making - Votes When Needed


> "Voting is a shortcut to move consensus forward in a timely manner"

> "Voting is a way to record an **official** consensus"

???
**Here are two quotes about voting** - the +1/-1 you've all heard about.
One of these is a good use of voting, the other is... not as good.

You must vote on releases.  In some cases, the vote is the formal 
record that a PMC or the board made a decision.  That keeps the decision 
as being an act of the ASF as a foundation, and not just a bunch of 
individual developers.

Voting to speed consensus... it can be OK in some cases, but where possilbe 
we prefer to work through to a better consensus. Some projects choose as 
a whole community to use votes more often, but it's not required.


---
template: logorb
# Decision Making - Timeline

- **Minimum** time to make a decision: 72 hours
- Allows timeshifted input from community

???
Your project community is from around the world, and from all sorts of 
backgrounds.  For example, some people commit during a dayjob; some people 
only have time on weekends or when the kids are asleep.

Ensuring sufficient time for most community members to comment is 
required for many major decisions in Apache projects. 

---
template: logorb
# Decision Making - No Deadlines

- Because **we** don't have any - besides those **we** agree on together
- Because our deadlines are "earliest date" something can happen

???
The ASF relies on volunteers (from the Apache perspective) to do our 
work.  Therefore in project areas, we don't have deadlines, other
than ones the project defines as a community.


---
template: treeright
name: communication
# Communication

.footnote[
[Take a different way?](#menu) | Continue Onward?
]

---
template: logorb
# Communication - Styles

Don't be a jerk; avoid the poisonous people.

**How Open Source Projects Survive Poisonous People**
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-F-3E8pyjFo

???
You can't overemphasize this message!


---
template: logorb
# Communication - Conduct

Don't be a jerk; avoid the poisonous people.

**ASF Code of Conduct**
https://www.apache.org/foundation/policies/conduct

???
This is how we operate, in all Apache project and foundation spaces.


---
template: logorb
# Communication - Language

> "The core **development** activity must be in English."

- Because... translation software isn't social
- The whole community must be able to evaluate each other's work
- The board needs to be able to provide oversight to all communities

???
At the current time, it's only practical for the ASF to provide 
governance and hosting to communities that can operate their dev@ 
list in English.  

This doesn't mean it can't be done - it certainly is being done in China
and elsewhere - just that the ASF can't support non-english as the 
primary **development** language.


---
template: closing
# Where next?

.footnote[
[Take a different way?](#menu) | Continue Onward?
]

---
template: thanks
name: closingslide
# The Apache Way
# Needs Your Input!

These slides - and indeed the whole of the `apache.org` website 
and Shane's http://theapacheway.com website - are open source.

Get involved with documentation - improve the Apache Way!

.code[https://github.com/ShaneCurcuru/slides/] 

---
name: last-page
template: thanks

## Thank You &amp; Questions!

.footnote[
By: [@ShaneCurcuru](https://twitter.com/shanecurcuru) |
<a rel="license" href="https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html">Apache v2.0</a> |
https://shanecurcuru.github.io/slides/
]

Commit message:

Add tips for seeing speaker notes

apachecon/TheApacheWay-Intro-ApacheConNA2017.md, after:

layout: true
name: fullheader
background-image: url(img/david-lezcano-120708-sml.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: flockbottom
background-image: url(img/shwetha-shankar-137724-smb.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: palmsbottom
background-image: url(img/jeremy-bishop-257105-sm.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: treeright
background-image: url(img/meduana-178155-sm.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: beachbottom
background-image: url(img/alexandre-perotto-46114-sml.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: pineapple
background-image: url(img/pineapple-supply-co-64690-sm.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: closing
background-image: url(img/deborah-kunzie-49758-sm.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: thanks
background-image: url(img/stuart-guest-smith-150560-sm.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: menu
background-image: url(img/lance-asper-153777-sm.jpg)
background-size: cover

---
layout: true
name: logorb
class: left
background-image: url(img/Apache_NA_Logo-b.png)
background-repeat: no-repeat
background-position: 98% bottom
background-size: 20%
background-origin: padding-box

---
template: fullheader
# Coming Up Next

.left-column[
## Shane Curcuru
]
.right-column[
## The Apache Way: Effective Open Source Project Management
]

**Tips:** _Press '?' for help; press 'P' for speaker notes._

---
template: fullheader
# The Apache Way
## Effective Open Source Project Management

.left-column[
## Shane Curcuru
]

.right-column[
### Vice President, Brand Management
### The Apache Software Foundation
### [@ShaneCurcuru](https://twitter.com/shanecurcuru)
]


---
template: logorb
# Apache Way: Introduction

> The Apache Way is a set or behaviors and practices developed at the ASF
and designed to promote long-lived successful projects by
focusing on stable governance and encouraging new contributors.

> These behaviors are required of Apache projects.

???
Very high level intro, mention concepts: openness, merit, consensus.
Whole day of sessions: pick the ones that make the most sense to you.


---
template: logorb
# The Apache Way - Morning
## Wednesday Schedule

* 9:00am [Apache Way: Effective Open Source Project Management](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zyI/the-apache-way-concepts-in-practice-shane-curcuru-the-apache-software-foundation), Shane Curcuru
* Coffee Break
* 10:15 [A Tale Of Two Developers In The Apache Way](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zv3/a-tale-of-two-developers-finding-harmony-between-commercial-software-development-and-the-apache-way-andrew-wang-alex-leblang-cloudera), Andrew Wang & Alex Leblang
* 11:15 [From dev@ to user@ to The Apache Way](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zvM/from-dev-to-user-steve-blackmon-people-pattern), Steve Blackmon
* 12:15 [Apache Way: Software is Easy; People are Hard](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zvb/software-is-easy-people-are-hard-benjamin-young-john-wiley-sons-inc), Benjamin Young
* 1:05pm Lunch (on own)

???
**Tales of 2 developers** with Andrew and Alex: how corporations - and their employees - can best get involved in Apache projects, told from your employee's perspective.

**From dev@to user@** with Steve: How projects can make it easy to attract new contributors

**Panel on Software is easy, people are hard** Panel discussion with Benjamin and Apache experts - how Apache projects can survive where others get dominated by one company, or run out of ideas, and their volunteers disappear.

---
template: logorb
# The Apache Way - Afternoon
## Wednesday Schedule

* 1:05pm Lunch (on own)
* 2:30pm [The Apache Way For Business](http://sched.co/AghD), Nick Burch
* 3:30pm [Committed To The Apache Way](https://apachecon2017.sched.com/event/9zvb/software-is-easy-people-are-hard-benjamin-young-john-wiley-sons-inc), Sharan Foga
* 4:20pm Coffee Break
* 4:40pm **Keynotes**
* 5:50pm **Lightning Talks**

???
**The Apache Way For Business** with Nick Burch and an expert panel of Apacheites, 
explaining how your company should think about engaging with Apache projects.

**Committed to Apache** with Sharan: How individuals can get recognized for contributions in other ways **besides code**

**Keynotes** a couple of talks about IOT and machine learning, then a great talk 
about how Comcast's developers make use of the Apache Way.

---
template: closing
# Apache Way
## Defining The Behaviors

---
template: logorb
# Apache Way History

- Creation of the ASF as a Foundation
- PMC Organization and Growth
- History of the Apache Way

???
The traditional Apache Way talk leads you through the journey of the 
ASF itself, how it was founded, the history of our communities, 
and a lot of other stuff from the past.

---
template: logorb
# What we AREN'T Talking About

- But I'm not going to do that
- What does history matter now?
- Why do we care how or why it happened?
- You want actionable information on **What To Do!**

???
But is that really important?  You want to learn the behaviors, right?
Actionable information.  Let's get to the good stuff.

So this is a new kind of Apache Way talk.

But in a diverse and dispersed world, having the why behind the rule - 
or the rationale to the policy - is a key way to ensure the community 
can understand it, know it's proven value, and then have an intelligent 
and focused way that we could work on changes.  That's still there - but 
we'll save the whys for after we talk about the whats.


---
template: menu
name: menu
# Apache Way: Menu

**What behaviors should we talk about next?**

- **[Community](#community)** - over Code
- **[Merit](#merit)** - recognizing your work
- **[Open Development](#open)** - for **everything**
- **[Decision Making](#decision)** - consensus & votes
- **[Communication](#communication)** - how we write
- [Questions To Answer](#closingslide)

.footnote[The Apache Way is participatory! **You** are part of the community!]

???
Community Over Code also means that You Need To Participate.

Each of these is a set of topics about a kind of behaviors that 
Apache projects are expected to follow.  **What do you want to talk about?**


---
template: flockbottom
name: community
# Community

.footnote[
[Take a different way?](#menu) | Continue Onward?
]

---
template: logorb
# Community

- What kind of community do we mean?
  - We don't live together
  - we don't work together
  - We don't know each other
- Except through our project

???
What does community mean here?  Working on an independent open source 
project is very different than most other human activities.  There are 
no other ties between people widely distributed in location, in time, 
in experience, and in jobs besides the project itself.  **SPACEBAR**

--

- Community includes developers, writers, testers, sysadmins, 
devops,... **and users**.


???
The important thing is that the **community** owns the project.  Not you, 
not me, not your company.  All of us.


---
template: logorb
# Community - No Jerks Allowed

- "No jerks allowed" - a key early message
  - Apache communities value group contributors, not lone wolves
  - Diverse communities attract more new contributors over time
  - BDFL not allowed in Apache PMCs

???
There are many ways to say this - No Jerks Allowed, Avoid Poisonous 
People, be decent, whatever.  The point is, where everyone is a volunteer 
and most people are doing this as a side task or second effort, ensuring 
that everyone is welcome is the most important factor for a long-lived 
health project.

---
template: logorb
# Community - No Jerks Allowed

- "No jerks allowed" - a key early message
  - FOSS communities value group contributors, not lone wolves
  - Diverse communities that can attract new contributors over time

### Be Excellent To Each Other

???
In the immortal words of Bill and Ted: Be Excellent To Each Other.

This is important for any community, and doubly so for Apache projects, 
since we're all also part of the larger ASF community.  We have a code 
of conduct - not because we want to use it, but because we don't want 
to have to use it, since the great majority of our communities keep 
discussion polite to start with. 


---
template: logorb
# Community - Wear Your Hats

- You are an individual - not an employee
- No corporate participation in Apache
- Individuals get recognition
  - Side effect for corporate teams: all team members must participate separately
  - Side effect for **you**: your merit stays with **you**

???
The ASF does not allow direct corporate participation in projects.  
We only recognize individuals.  Merit accrues to individuals, and they 
are expected to act with their project hat on at times.

This may be a polite fiction - many employment agreements mean you have 
to look out for your employer - but it's a key part of how our projects work.

This both ensures that newcomers - from big employers or small ones - are 
welcome in our projects, and also means that the merit **you** gain 
in an Apache project stays with **you**, no matter where you work.  That 
helps encourage long-lived participants, across jobs.


---
template: logorb
# Community - Check Affiliations At The Door

- Not talking about hierarchy
- Because we have one - each project is separate
- We each volunteer with same powers (and superpowers in a PMC)
- Your PMC doesn't care what your dayjob role is

???
Wearing your project hat means you're acting on behalf of the project as 
a whole, not your employer.  Sometimes you need to do things as an 
employee; that's fine.  But mark it clearly, and when voting on 
serious project decisions, wear your project hat.


---
template: logorb
# Community - Independent Governance

- ASF owns the trademarks
- ASF ensures neutrality, development
- PMC owns the brand
- PMCs govern independently

> "It's not a hierachy, it's a community"

???
The net effect of all the above is that projects are governed for the 
public good and the best interests of the project community as a whole.

PMCs are expected to make releases and vote in new committers based on 
merit - how much an individual creates value for that project.

When PMCs slack in their duties, the board is here to provide oversight 
and if necessary, correction.  Both at the PMC level and the board level 
we expect people to act for the public good - and the fact we are a 
501C3 organization, with directors elected from merit - not sponsor 
dollars - means we can back it up.


---
template: pineapple
name: merit
# Merit

[Take a different way?](#menu) | Continue Onward?


---
template: logorb
# Merit - What YOU Can Do

.left-column[
Merit
]

.right-column[
Defined by the value **you** bring to the specific project, defined 
in the **context of that project** by the project community.
]

> "You gain merit by doing things that specific community values"

???
Meritocracy is a word we use that is often misunderstood - some other 
communities see it as having a different connotation than the ASF uses.

Your merit is the value you bring to a project **as judged by that project's community**.

Every project is it's own merit structure.  Merit is not transferable, 
and it doesn't expire.  It may get stale, but it stays with you through 
jobs and careers.


---
template: logorb
# Merit - Growth

The more you do, the more power you _may be granted_ to take actions:
- User
- Contributor
- **Committer**
- **PMC Member**
- PMC Chair / VP
- ASF Member
- **Director**

???
Each step is defined by the merit you are recognized for by that 
specific community. Each step means you can get a binding vote on new tasks.


---
template: logorb
# Merit - Not Authority

- Leaders vs. managers

> "Merit does not buy you **authority** (community must still agree)"

> "Merit gets you **privileges**: commit access, voting on committers"

???
You are still part of the community - it's not a hierarchy; everyone 
with merit (commit bit) has a say in basic decisions.

Everyone can propose and do new work.  Just because you don't find it 
valuable, doesn't mean some other part of the community thinks it's valuable.


---
template: logorb
# Merit - Umbrella Projects

## Problem area: Umbrella projects

Jakarta was an umbrella project - with many different subprojects and 
components - and communities.

The PMC must be a coherent community to be able to recognize merit in all contributors.

???
A cautionary tale: in the past, we have had successful projects that grew 
in scope - both technical and social - until they were too big to 
govern themselves effectively.

When a project grows such that different groups of committers running 
modules can't evaluate each other's work - or vote on releases - it's 
probably too big.

The board is here to backstop communities.  Each community needs to be 
coherent and work as a single unit - when you're bigger than that, you should 
split up into separate projects.


---
template: palmsbottom
name: open
# Open Development

.footnote[
[Take a different way?](#menu) | Continue Onward?
]

---
template: logorb
# Open Development - Time Shifting

- Yes, we use mailing lists
- Asynchronous communication is critical
  - ...a dispersed community
  - ...dispersed in space
  - ...dispersed in abilities / expertise
  - ...dispersed in motivation
  - ...dispersed in time
- Only know each other through the project

???
Remember: we are a dispersed community, each with our own lives and jobs.
We need to show the work we're doing - and allow feedback - in whatever 
timeframe works for everyone else on the project.

You don't need to wait for everyone's feedback - but you do need to recognize that 
sometimes other committers will have better ideas, or will be willing 
to do some of the work for you.


---
template: logorb
# Open Development - Archiving Everything

> If It Didn't Happen On-List It Didn't Happen

- Must be public list unless there's a reason for private list
- Asynchronous lists provide time for 
  - feedback
  - critique
  - new ideas
  - others to show their work

> Allows newcomers to learn at any time

???
Archiving everything means that newcomers can get up to speed with 
all the information of the project available for them.  Even if your 
documentation doesn't lead new users through this, having it available 
both for people to find, and especially for people to reference when 
questions come up is the most important thing.


---
template: logorb
# Open Development - Transparent Decisions

- Your motives aren't transparent to the community
  - Motivated by boss, by outside technical need, by just being a geek
- Motivation should be best for project as a whole

The right way to work is to:

- Telegraph your intent
- Draft designs openly
- Submit work in chunks
- Welcome feedback along the way

???
Ensuring decisions are made openly - when everyone has the same information 
and time to read it - is required of Apache projects.

**Open source does not always mean open development.**

Apache projects always practice open development - it's required.

---
template: logorb
# Open Development - Pragmatic License

- Apache License v2.0
- Maximum user freedom
- Trust in ASF as corporation
  - To maintain open development
  - To continue to provide source code

> Apache Attic - where quiet projects slumber

???
A goal of the ASF is to encourage maximum inbound contributions.
Using the broadly permissive Apache License v2.0 is a key part of 
this - both from the legal details point of view, and from our brand.

People trust they can just use stuff from Apache without being surprised 
by any unusual licenses or changes.


---
template: beachbottom
name: decision
# Decision Making

[Take a different way?](#menu) | Continue Onward?


---
template: logorb
# Decision Making - Consensus Preferred

- Consensus within community
- Choose best path forward
  - Or even an improvement
  - Your perfection may be someone else's "meh"

???
**There is no perfection** - just getting better step by step.  Our goal is 
to serve the public good, so any new features - as long as they don't 
fail the tests or unduly slow down performance - is a good thing.

Consensus doesn't mean everyone thinks it's perfect - just that any 
proposed change is better somehow than we have now.


---
template: logorb
# Decision Making - Votes When Needed


> "Voting is a shortcut to move consensus forward in a timely manner"

> "Voting is a way to record an **official** consensus"

???
**Here are two quotes about voting** - the +1/-1 you've all heard about.
One of these is a good use of voting, the other is... not as good.

You must vote on releases.  In some cases, the vote is the formal 
record that a PMC or the board made a decision.  That keeps the decision 
as being an act of the ASF as a foundation, and not just a bunch of 
individual developers.

Voting to speed consensus... it can be OK in some cases, but where possilbe 
we prefer to work through to a better consensus. Some projects choose as 
a whole community to use votes more often, but it's not required.


---
template: logorb
# Decision Making - Timeline

- **Minimum** time to make a decision: 72 hours
- Allows timeshifted input from community

???
Your project community is from around the world, and from all sorts of 
backgrounds.  For example, some people commit during a dayjob; some people 
only have time on weekends or when the kids are asleep.

Ensuring sufficient time for most community members to comment is 
required for many major decisions in Apache projects. 

---
template: logorb
# Decision Making - No Deadlines

- Because **we** don't have any - besides those **we** agree on together
- Because our deadlines are "earliest date" something can happen

???
The ASF relies on volunteers (from the Apache perspective) to do our 
work.  Therefore in project areas, we don't have deadlines, other
than ones the project defines as a community.


---
template: treeright
name: communication
# Communication

.footnote[
[Take a different way?](#menu) | Continue Onward?
]

---
template: logorb
# Communication - Styles

Don't be a jerk; avoid the poisonous people.

**How Open Source Projects Survive Poisonous People**
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-F-3E8pyjFo

???
You can't overemphasize this message!


---
template: logorb
# Communication - Conduct

Don't be a jerk; avoid the poisonous people.

**ASF Code of Conduct**
https://www.apache.org/foundation/policies/conduct

???
This is how we operate, in all Apache project and foundation spaces.


---
template: logorb
# Communication - Language

> "The core **development** activity must be in English."

- Because... translation software isn't social
- The whole community must be able to evaluate each other's work
- The board needs to be able to provide oversight to all communities

???
At the current time, it's only practical for the ASF to provide 
governance and hosting to communities that can operate their dev@ 
list in English.  

This doesn't mean it can't be done - it certainly is being done in China
and elsewhere - just that the ASF can't support non-english as the 
primary **development** language.


---
template: closing
# Where next?

.footnote[
[Take a different way?](#menu) | Continue Onward?
]

---
template: thanks
name: closingslide
# The Apache Way
# Needs Your Input!

These slides - and indeed the whole of the `apache.org` website 
and Shane's http://theapacheway.com website - are open source.

Get involved with documentation - improve the Apache Way!

.code[https://github.com/ShaneCurcuru/slides/] 

---
name: last-page
template: thanks

## Thank You &amp; Questions!

.footnote[
By: [@ShaneCurcuru](https://twitter.com/shanecurcuru) |
<a rel="license" href="https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html">Apache v2.0</a> |
https://shanecurcuru.github.io/slides/
]
